hello and welcome the operation is
continuing at
full throttle there is still no
ceasefire on the table
those are the words of an israeli
defense source to the bbc
as the conflict in israel and gaza
continues
two palestinian militants have been
killed in the latest israeli air raids
targeting gaza city overnight
palestinian rockets were launched at
southern israel
let's show you the latest figures from
the health ministry in gaza that says
that 219 people have been
killed including 63 children
while 12 people have been killed in
israel including two children
a spokesperson for the un secretary
general said about 50 000 palestinians
in gaza had been displaced
so far in the last hour we've been
hearing from the israeli prime minister
benjamin netanyahu
he has defended israel's military
actions
we try to target those who target
us with great precision that is not
as surgical an operation as it is even
in a surgical
room in a hospital you don't have the
ability to prevent
collateral damage around the affected
tissues
even then you can't and certainly in a
military operation you cannot
but there is no army in the world that
does more than the israeli army
in israeli security services and israeli
intelligence
to prevent collateral damage to have
israel criticized for that is observed
benjamin netanyahu speaking just a short
time ago in a moment we'll speak to a
former u.n human rights official first
though mark labelle reports on events on
the ground overnight
more israeli air strikes more militants
killed in gaza
for a tenth day a palestinian rocket
intercepted
by israel's air defenses
after an earlier strike in southern
israel killed
two foreign farm workers so continues
a cycle of violence
visiting an air base in southern israel
its prime minister appears relaxed
saying hamas has been set back by many
years
we will continue as necessary to restore
peace to
all israeli citizens
but things are not getting more peaceful
last seen 16 years ago the al-aqsa
martyrs brigade
armed palestinians rear their heads in
ramallah
in the occupied west bank
in jericho arab protesters are met with
rubber coated steel bullets
and tear gas also
feeling the heat from all this is
america who despite voicing
its support for a ceasefire has so far
blocked united nations-backed efforts
to end hostilities where should the poor
go
where should the weak go isn't the u.n
the house of
all people
france now wants the un's powerful
security council
which includes america to vote for a
ceasefire
and greater humanitarian access in gaza
but the u.s view has for many years been
that the security council is not the
place to resolve issues
between non-state actors like hamas and
israel i think the us
is going to veto it but it will be part
of this
growing sense that the u.s will support
that we have to begin winding this up
i think within days with all eyes on
gaza
whichever way the u.s precedes its push
for peace here
unilaterally or inside the u.n it's now
under sustained political pressure
both at home and abroad to do so
fast mark lobel bbc news
well let's talk more about what the
world is doing to find a peaceful
solution to this we can speak to john
dugard former un special rapporteur to
the unhcr john good to see you
israeli defense forces and sources have
just told us
that the bombardment will continue there
is no ceasefire
what do you believe it would take to
bring israel
to the table to look at and agree to a
well ceasefire are certain difficulties
in the way of a ceasefire
first of all there's a problem that the
united states is blocking any
resolution from the security council
which is the
obvious body to initiate such action
there's also the problem of the refusal
of israel and the united states
and other countries to speak to hamas
directly
so you have the bizarre situation that
so-called or prospective mediators
are unwilling to speak to both sides in
the conflict and that's a problem
for the ceasefire so do you believe john
that the u.s is not actually an honest
broker now
in this i think it's become very clear
that the us
is not an honest broker
first of all there's the evidence
provided by the failure of the united
states to support
a resolution at this stage but secondly
there's the fact that the united states
continues to operate
its embassy from jerusalem which is
contrary
to international law and also there's
the fact that the
united states pays military aid or
tribute to israel in the form of 3.8
billion dollars a year so the united
states
had disqualified itself as an honest
broker and that means that the
security council will now have to
initiate any peace process that
arises from the present conflict so do
you believe the reality is
that the u.s that president biden is
just going to allow
israel this window now to achieve its
objectives
the evidence seems to suggest that
and i think it's time that the united
states reputed some of the
allegations made by prime minister
netanyahu for instance his recent
statement
that the israeli defense forces do not
target civilian targets
is simply disproved by the evidence the
israeli defense forces have repeatedly
targeted areas where they know that
there will be collateral
damage which will injure civilians so i
think the united states
is obliged to address issues of this
kind and also
to withdraw its statements that israel
is entitled to act
in self-defense this is not
a conflict between states israel is
engaged in a police operation
in gaza and it is subject to the rules
of proportionality
so i think on all kinds israel must now
be
seemed to be in violation of
international law but to make matters
worse
the united states is aiding and abetting
the
government of israel in these activities
john who was talking to hamas
egypt we know that for sure that they
are
yes and in previous
conflicts of this kind in 2008 2009
and 2014 it was principally
egypt that brought about the ceasefire
though in 2014 john kerry did play
an important role in uh brokering
a ceasefire but that doesn't seem to be
the policy of the biden administration
how do you think john the abraham
accords are complicating things i mean
arab countries originally said they
hoped this would give them some leverage
over israel
that is clearly not the case in fact
it's turned out to actually be quite
embarrassing for them
yes the states that are partly to the
abraham accords
have not played a role in this at all it
seems that
egypt is determined to assert itself
as the broker between
hamas palestine and
israel and i think it's most likely to
achieve
its goal of course together with jordan
so i think the
abraham accord states uh have been
completely marginalized john good to get
your thoughts thanks for joining us from
the hague
we're going to take you live now to
pictures where we're getting in from the
west bank
town of berlin we can see here
a palestinian funeral taking place
crowds have gathered there and we know
that from the health ministry 219 people
have been
killed 63 children so many funerals
taking place
and these are live pictures that we're
seeing right now as people gather
in the west bank